AWS Personalize: Revamp and add connection setting (#649)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: docs/destinations/analytics/aws-personalize.mdx

---
title: "AWS Personalize"
description: Step-by-step guide  on sending your event data from RudderStack to AWS Personalize.
---

# AWS Personalize

[Amazon Personalize](https://aws.amazon.com/personalize/), also known as **AWS Personalize**, is a machine learning service by Amazon. It enables you to create high-quality content recommendations, personalized product and marketing promotions, and much more.

RudderStack supports AWS Personalize as a destination where you can send your event data seamlessly.

<div class="successBlock">

> Find the open-source transformer code for this destination in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/personalize).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find the open source transformer code for this destination in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/master/v0/destinations/personalize).
```

<div class="infoBlock">

To know more about the difference between cloud mode and device mode in RudderStack, refer to the <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-cloud/rudderstack-connection-modes/">RudderStack Connection Modes</a> guide.
</div>

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to AWS Personalize, follow these steps:

1. Generate a Tracking ID by following these [instructions](https://github.com/rudderlabs/rudder-transformer/tree/destination_personalize/v0/personalize/scripts).

> <div class="successBlock">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="infoBlock">
```

> Keep this Tracking ID handy. It is required to configure AWS Personalize as a destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep the Tracking ID handy. It is required to configure AWS Personalize as a destination.
```

</div>

2. From your [RudderStack dashboard](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **AWS Personalize**.

> 3. Assign a name to your destination and click on **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Assign a name to your destination and click on **Continue**.
```

### Connection settings

> To successfully configure AWS Personalize as a destination, configure the following settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To successfully set up AWS Personalize as a destination, you need to configure the following settings:
```

          ]
```

You can use these actions based on the type of Personalize events you want to send. For example, to send only <code class="inline-code">putEvents</code> type of events, you can attach only <code class="inline-code">personalize:PutEvents</code>.
</div>

* **Secret Access Key**: Enter the secret access key of your AWS account.
* **Region**: Enter the region associated with your AWS account in this field.
* **TrackingId**: Enter the Tracking ID generated in the first step.
* **Dataset ARN**: Enter the dataset ARN of the dataset from the chosen dataset group.
* **Personalize Events**: Choose the type of Personalize event you want to avail.
* **Map all the fields**: Enter the **Schema Field** you have used to create the schema in AWS Personalize (For example, `USER_ID`, `TIMESTAMP`, `ITEM_ID`, etc.). Also, enter the corresponding **Mapped Field** from which the value will be taken from your event payload.

<div class="infoBlock">

For more information on creating a schema in Personalize, refer to the [Personalize documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/personalize/latest/dg/data-prep-creating-datasets.html).
</div>

<div class="infoBlock">

> When using the <code class="inline-code">PutItems</code> operation, you need to provide the path to the corresponding <strong>Mapped Field</strong> corresponding to the <code class="inline-code">ITEM_ID</code> in your Personalize database schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the <code class="inline-code">PutItems</code> operation, you need to provide the path to the <strong>Mapped Field</strong> corresponding to the <code class="inline-code">ITEM_ID</code> present in your Personalize database schema.
```

<div class="infoBlock">

When using the <code class="inline-code">PutItems</code>, the <strong>Schema Field</strong> <code class="inline-code">ITEM_ID</code> must be mapped to a specific key inside the payload and you need to mention the path to the chosen key as the corresponding <strong>Mapped Field</strong>.
</div>

In the above example, if you map `ITEM_ID` to the payload field `X`, the corresponding **Mapped Field** will be `properties.X`.

<div class="infoBlock">

> For any other <strong>Schema Field</strong> in your <code class="inline-code">ITEMS</code> dataset, it is <strong>NOT</strong> advised to specify the path - only the field name will be sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For any other <strong>Schema Field</strong> in your <code class="inline-code">ITEMS</code> dataset, it is <strong>not</strong> recommended to specify the path - only the field name is sufficient.
```

</div>

<div class="warningBlock">

While using <code class="inline-code">PutEvents</code>, the <strong>Mapped Field</strong> for <code class="inline-code">ITEM_ID</code> should <strong>NOT</strong> contain the path to the field. Only the name of the field will be sufficient. The same rule is applicable for any other <strong>Schema Field</strong>  mapping.
</div>

The following image shows an example of the dashboard configuration for `PutItems`:

<img src="../../assets/putItems.png" alt="PutItems" />

The following image shows an example of the dashboard configuration for `PutEvents`:

<img src="../../assets/putEvents.png" alt="Dashboard Configuration Based On The Above Example" />

> ## Identify

Reviewer: We should move the `identify` section before `track`.
